Solve common HTML problems
The following links point to solutions to common everyday problems you'll need to solve with HTML.

Basic structure
The most basic application of HTML is document structure. If you're new to HTML you should start with this.

How to create a basic HTML document
How to divide a webpage into logical sections
How to set up a proper structure of headings and paragraphs
Basic text-level semantics
HTML specializes in providing semantic information for a document, so HTML answers many questions you might have about how to get your message across best in your document.

How to create a list of items with HTML
How to stress or emphasize content
How to indicate that text is important
How to display computer code with HTML
How to annotate images and graphics
How to mark abbreviations and make them understandable
How to add quotations and citations to web pages
How to define terms with HTML
Hyperlinks
One of the main reasons for HTML is making navigation easy with hyperlinks, which can be used in many different ways:

How to create a link
How to create a table of contents with HTML
Images & multimedia
How to add images to a webpage
How to add video content to a webpage
Scripting & styling
HTML only sets up document structure. To solve presentation issues, use CSS, or use scripting to make your page interactive.

How to use CSS within a webpage
How to use JavaScript within a webpage
Embedded content
How to embed a webpage within another webpage
Uncommon or advanced problems
Beyond the basics, HTML is very rich and offers advanced features for solving complex problems. These articles help you tackle the less common use cases you may face:

Forms
Forms are a complex HTML structure made to send data from a webpage to a web server. We encourage you to go over our full dedicated guide. Here is where you should start:

How to create a simple Web form
How to structure a Web form
Tabular information
Some information, called tabular data, needs to be organized into tables with columns and rows. It's one of the most complex HTML structures, and mastering it is not easy:

How to create a data table
How to make HTML tables accessible
Data representation
How to represent numeric and code values with HTML — see Superscript and Subscript, and Representing computer code.
How to use data attributes
Advanced text semantics
How to take control of HTML line breaking
How to mark changes (added and removed text) — see the <ins> and <del> elements.
Advanced images & multimedia
How to add a responsive image to a webpage
How to add vector image to a webpage
How to add a hit map on top of an image
Internationalization
HTML is not monolingual. It provides tools to handle common internationalization issues.

How to add multiple languages into a single webpage
How to display time and date with HTML
Performance
How to author fast-loading HTML pages